How to play the game/Game rules:

-Rat navigation:
Player controls the rat, the black rectangle. Rat can be moved with arrow keys,
direction of the arrow will cause the rat to move to that direction. Key needs to
be held when moving among the border of the game field. When rat is moved away
from the border, it will start moving at a constant speed, that way holding the
arrow key is no longer required. In that case arrow keys are used to change
direction. When rat moves inside the game field, it will leave a tail stretching
in its track. When rat touches the border again, it will stop and the tail left in
its track disappears.

-Objective
At the start of each stage multiple pieces of cheese are placed (green rectangles).
Objective of the game is to eat all of the pieces of cheese. Cheese is eaten
when rat touches the cheese, making the cheese disappear. When all cheese is eaten,
player proceeds to the next stage.

-Obstacles
Game field contains a certain amount of balls. Amount of balls is increased by one
when next stage is reached. Balls move in a diagonal direction, bouncing off
borders, pieces of cheese and other balls. When ball touches the rat or its tail,
player loses a life. Also if rat touches its own tail, player loses a life. Player
starts the game with 3 lives. When player has 0 lives left, game ends.

-Score
Each playing session is awarded with a score. Eating cheese is awarded with 100
points. If the next piece of cheese is eaten without touching the border in
between, award for eating the cheese is doubled. If border is touched, award is
reset at 100 points. Combo is also reset if rat has been hit with a ball. At the
beginning of each stage time bonus counter is reset, which will then start
decreasing at a constant rate. If stage is finished before the counter has reached
zero, the value of the counter is given as points.

Starting, pausing and ending the game:

When the program is run, the main menu is shown. Pressing the new game button will
start the game from the first stage. Started game can be paused with the 'P'
button. In that case the main button is shown, with the additional Continue game
button. Pressing this button will start the game without resetting it from the
first stage. When the game ends when all player's lives are lost, the high score
menu is shown. If player has reached the top 10 score, a textfield will appear
prompting the player to enter their name. When name is entered, press enter or
push the accept button to save your score. The updated score will be remembered
when program is restarted. Press back button to return to the main menu.

Menu navigation, other services:

-Main menu: Pressing the setting button will show the settings menu. Pressing the
high score button will show the high score menu. Pressing the credits button will
show the credits menu. Exit button will end the program.

-Settings menu: 
Pressing the change language button lets the user choose a different language. A
file chooser window will be shown, in it several text files with appropriate
names: english.txt, russian.txt, finnish.txt etc. Open the file, to change the
language.

Pressing the change controls button will show the controls menu. In it all of the
player input actions will be shown. User can remap each action with an input of
their choosing. Press the button of a certain action then press a key of your
choosing. From now on, the action you chose is performed when a key you chose is
pressed. Back button to return to the settings menu.

Toggling the aspect ratio checkbox will toggle whether the game field should
contain itself in a ratio. If checkbox is unchecked, game field is stretched to
the entire window.

Back button returns to the main menu.

-Other menus:
High score menu shows the top 10 score. No other services are provided in this
menu, unless the user has been playing the game and reached the game over. (See
Starting, pausing and ending the game). Back button to return.

Credits menu shows the author of the game. Back button to return.

Services outside the program:

Language files can be created by the user without programming skills. From the
directory where the .jar file of the game is located, go to assets/language.
There, copy one of the language files, preferrably of a language that you
understand. Change its name with the name of the language you're about to
translate the game into (japanese.txt). Open the file. There, you will see several
lines that look something like this:
#continue%Continue game
Translate the phrase that is on the right side of the '%' character. Do this for
every line in the file. WARNING: Do not change the left part of the line. Also do
not edit the first line of the file.
If everything is done correctly, run the program, go to Main menu>Settings>Change
language and choose the file you created with the file chooser. The program should
now speak your language.
